We defined action types and action creators,
let's now go to a reducer and do something for the different actions.
So inside my switch statement, I'll add my first case and the cases are simply the action types as defined
in the action types file, not the action creators because these are only there for creating actions
we want to dispatch, in the reducer,
it's not about dispatching though, it's about handling.
So let's simply import the action types here, going to import something from
let's go up to the actions folder and then to the action types file
and that something will be add place, delete place, select place and deselect place because I want
to handle all these cases in this reducer.
So there
first of all, let me handle the add place case and we can essentially grab the logic from our app.js
file,
there we have the place add handler and there where we update the state, we update the places array
by concatenating a new place to the existing list.
So in the end, I can just copy that code here and put it into my reducer here, though not directly here
in the case, instead
first of all, we always return a new state. In redux we never directly manipulate the old one,
we always return a brand new state and this will replace the old one,
this concept is called immutability and it makes sure that our application is predictable and that we
don't mess around with the old state and therefore maybe add something which isn't picked up by the
rest of the app or something like that.
So here we return a brand new object which represents our state,
therefore to not lose anything from the old state, I'll first of all copy the old state properties and
I do this with the spread operator which are just three dots and then the state. This looks strange but
it essentially pulls out all the properties of the old state and adds them to this new object,
now every new property we add here either is added to it or overrides existing properties we pulled out
but old properties which we don't override will be kept
which we of course want
because this new object is going to replace our old state,
we certainly don't want to lose anything from that state.
So now with that here, we got the old state copied,
now we copy in the code we had from
app.js where we override places, we use the same name here for our properties so we can keep that
and then we take the old state not previous state, state places and concatenate our new state.
We don't use place name here though but we use action
and now let's have a look at the action creator which property we're eventually going to receive,
that's going to be a place name property because that's the action we're handling,
so let's pick place name here on the action.
This now is the logic we need to create our new state, our new state where we update the places,
now that's the add place case,
now let's add a case for deleting a place
and again let's have a look at the app.js file. There in the place delete handler, you see that
we update places by filtering, essentially removing one element from the old places and then setting
selected place to null.
So let me copy that too,
let's go back to our places reducer
in the case here, let's first of all return a new javascript object where I then simply again copy all
old state properties and then I'll copy in or I'll
paste in what I just copied.
We override places by reaching out to state, not previous state, state places and filtering it and
then here in the filter, we compare the key of the place we're currently looking at,
keep in mind this function is executed on every element in the places array and we compare that key to
the
selected place key.
Now for that, we can reach out to state,
have a look at the selected place and access its key.
Since the delete action will only be dispatchable from within the modal, we will always have a selected
place and thereafter we also set selected place to null.
So now we add a delete place case, let's now add the select place case
and as always, let's simply return a javascript object there first of all, in there let's copy all old state
properties and then we can have a look at the app.js file again. What are we doing when we select
a place?
Well we set the selected place property of course and we do that by finding the place we clicked on, so
by finding the place which has our key, so let's go back to our reducer and let's paste it in here, selected
place,
we reach out to state places and we try to find a place where the key matches the key we actually receive
on our action.
So let's have a look at our action creator again for selecting,
there you see we'll have a place key property,
so let's use that property in our reducer, there we reach out to action.place key. With that, we have
the logic to select a place.
Now let's add a last case for
unselecting a place,
there we also return a javascript object and copy all old state properties and unselecting then is super
simple, we just set selected place to null like this.
And with that, our reducer is looking good,
with that we got a reducer where we can handle all these cases.
The next goal of course is to connect our react native app to redux so that we can actually dispatch
our action and we can get the state from redux.
Let's do that over the next lectures.